if you're on your way to a gig this
weekend you'll be interested to hear
about a company that's giving ordinary
music fans the chance to watch some of
their favorite artists at a private gig
is called own gig calm and its founder
Richard Davis joins us now hello Richard
hi there can you explain to us how it
works yes certainly i mean what it
allows people to do is come to a website
register tell us which band they'd love
to see in a private gig and how much
they'd be willing to pay to see them and
then we track that demand and if we find
enough people are bidding for the same
artist and sufficient funds are being
fledged for that gig to happen then
we'll approach the the band concerned
and try and put on a show and so who
have you put on so far well the first
thing we lost at the end of last year
was for blow monkeys at a tu casa band
band played for 1617 years but their
fans were still die hard fans they came
to the sites 150 of them in total and
pledged to bring them back to the live
circuit and sufficient money was raised
there for the chauffeur happened so much
did they pay each they paid a hundred
pounds each in the end what we do is we
serve a single ticket price once we know
how much people are willing to bid and
clearly that's got to be sufficient for
the pep to interest a band as well so
what what defines a private gig is at
the size of the venue well it's a number
of things really I suppose it is it's
beside the venue and it's the type of
venue I mean it's not a traditional bull
venue it's something they've made little
bit out of the ordinary but certainly
it's more intimate as a show than a
traditional geek would be private gig
will also perhaps entail the audience
requesting songs and maybe even meeting
the artists as well and the idea is that
this gives ordinary fans the opportunity
for the first time to get to this kind
of gig well exactly probably gigs rd
going on for years even since my days
the music industry many decades ago but
they're always for the rather wealthy or
for a corporate market place and this
gives that the everyday fan as you say
the opportunity to to club together and
make it happen it's not suitable for all
artists now presumably is it no
definitely not i mean it that the the
commercials don't really work when
you're looking at Madonna or you're
looking at other sort of a lift artist
but certainly the middle tier of acts of
which there are numerous
does a fly to the numbers do work as we
show and we're about to have you
launched our second gig reasonably soon
and he will that be well there's a
number in contention at the moment I
mean those most bit forward or pledge
for at the site right now include tokio
hotel and German bands who have got a
huge following in the UK as I
demonstrated through nine hundred or so
them bidding to bring the bounded to the
UK and Rick Astley possibly Nestle yeah
he's there we've been rick roll so we've
got a few but quantity with Cassidy fans
docile heckle shannon noll who's a pop
idol winner in Australia whose huge and
its own territory we've had a lot of
other bodies bidding for him to playing
the private okay thank you very much sir
richard and presumably people can just
go to your website own gig calm and
suggest whoever they want and you'll
tell whether or not it's realistic
exactly okay great thank you very much
for joining us Richard Davis